---
layout: post
title: Post-by-Jared-Gold-I-Quit-My-Job-Today
categories:
- tweets
---
The Confused College Graduate
*Originally posted on July 30th, 2013 on my blog at Blog
I quit my job today.
Many people have said it is a bad idea to quit with nothing definitely lined up. And you know what? Maybe it was.
Don’t get me wrong - everything about the job (including the company and my coworkers) was great - except for the ACTUAL work that I had to do - nothing wrong with it - it just wasn’t for me. It’s like the Office Space quote along the lines of “every day you see me is the new worst day of my life.” Not quite true (since it’s meant to be a comedic exaggeration), but most days do indeed suck. Most jobs are honestly not that far off from Office Space, though don’t expect to find three people beating the shit out of a malfunctioning printer in a field.
We’re told our whole fucking lives to jump through all of these various hoops. And if we just do this next thing, we’re set! First, it’s high school - “Put yourself out there! Take AP classes! Work hard; if you get into a good college, you’re all good!”
Then, in college - we’re told to get good grades, work hard, meet a ton of people, and get internships in our relevant field. If we do all of these things, we may land a good job...and then, life will be great! There’s nothing else to worry about!
Don’t get me wrong, you should do these things, and college is absolutely fantastic - but it’s not so linear to assume “if you just do this, man, you’ll fucking be living a dream.” Education is a step in the right direction, but not the complete answer to everything. Enough fucking schooling for like the first 20 out of 22 years of life. And don’t show me any more fucking videos of live birth.
On Facebook, you see people regularly beaming with excitement about internships they’ve landed, big interviews they have, etc. And that’s wonderful - because these are important accomplishments people should relish, as they’ve likely worked hard for them. But nobody should be excited under the false pretenses that they will instantly be fulfilled with all aspects of life because of achieving employment that they think they will enjoy.
Most of the people on Facebook are probably just as clueless as you think you are. The vast majority of us are clueless. And the great thing is that there’s nothing wrong with that.
Let’s say that you land that ideal job - the one that pays well in the field you’ve been working towards - everything is figured out, right?!!?!? Everything that everyone has been telling you is totally true, and life is so easy now, I know it!
Fuck no.
Most likely, you’ll realize that having a “real” / “grown-up” job is not that cool or that you’re not as interested in something as you thought you’d be. If you genuinely enjoy your job, I swear - consider yourself privileged. But don’t be naive enough to just assume this.
For most, the enchantment of having a job will soon likely wear off, and you’re left wondering if life is essentially waking up early...to do shit you don’t want to do...for 5/7 (~70%) of your life for the next 40 years...with the only solace coming from weekends...where you just waste time and money doing shit like going to bars whenever you’re free...because you’re expected to at this age (not necessarily because you even want to...though going sometimes can be a lot of fun).
You get free time at night? Well, sort of, but not really. You’ll likely have been sitting and staring at a computer for eight hours per day...not to mention commuting...so days are longer than you assume. Then you have chores and shit to do, like buying groceries/doing laundry. And maybe you want to exercise. By the time all of that is done, you have an hour or so to do something. But you’re too tired to do much, so you get on Facebook, Netflix, etc. Maybe, if you work really hard and are efficient with your time, you’ll have the ability to pursue one hobby semi-seriously, which will likely be the most interesting thing about you.
And then you go to sleep at an ideally reasonable hour in a futile attempt to wake up refreshed...to do it all over again. With the only solace being the idea of your weekend as it inches closer...to do the same boring shit you always do.
As far as salary, it’s cool having money now, right!? Well, sort of. Except you don’t see remotely close to the amount on your offer letter. You’ll have 27-30% to go to the government, money to health care, money to a 401k, money to any stock sharing plans, etc. Before you know it, yes, you have some extra spending money, but you’re not a Saudi prince with a diamond-covered Mercedes like you thought you’d be.
If you take a job you don’t like, you’re effectively a prisoner that is working to simply exist...with your only real enjoyment coming from the occasional rewards of free time or spending money. Life is expensive. There’s no point to work hard doing something that you don’t like...to enable you to continue working hard and doing something you don’t like.
You know when you’ll be “free?” When you’re 62 and have saved enough in your retirement fund and 401k (if it’s even worth anything by then) to enjoy some solace. Except look at you - you’re now old...you (and your spouse) have more wrinkles and saggy appendages than the population of Hong Kong. And you don’t have the energy or vigor you used to have. Maybe you have medical problems by now and you have to pound pills like a young kid inhales a king-sized bag of Skittles on Halloween just to feel somewhat normal. Hell, you may not even make it to 62, in which case, congrats, you’ve thrown away your life. But hey, now you’re dead - isn’t it cool that you didn’t get a chance to complete what you actually wanted to!?
Many people will tell you this is how life is and to accept it. You put in your 40 hours per week, you are relatively comfortable, and you’ll retire after you put your time in. Putting time in until you’re eventually free and can enjoy yourself...minus the risk of potentially being someone’s personal sock-puppet, sounds a lot like prison. Maybe you’ll learn to live with it though and it won’t bother you so much...right?
To me, the people that fully accept that defeatist mindset and expectancy of misery have already lost, and will have to live with their self-fulfilling prophecy of mediocrity and predictability until they make a change...which, as time goes on, becomes increasingly more challenging.
“We work jobs we don’t enjoy to buy shit we don’t need to impress people we don’t like.” [quote from Fight Club]
We’ve been told our whole life what we SHOULD be doing. People make blanket statements about our worth through our careers, possessions,and education. And this is where it has gotten us. Living a boring and predictable existence by the agenda of others. What we think is normal and what we should be doing is about as exciting as leftover chocolate pudding. The shitty off-brand, not a Snack Pack. The path which we’ve forged for ourselves at the direction of those that care about us because it’s how they themselves were instructed to live. These are old and outdated standards. Often times, the people telling us this lived in an era where if you put in your hard work at your job, you were promoted. Jobs were more steady at that time. But now, the economy is global and things are always changing. No matter your position or skillset, you are not safe, nor are you entitled to employment. So you better get fucking comfortable with how you make a living, because you’re going to have to be refreshing your skills, your network, and always evolving to keep up.
And you know the thing about being normal? It fucking sucks. It’s what you do when you don’t know what to do. Or what you do when you’re too scared to actually try what you know you should. You’re average...run-of-the-mill
...dime a dozen. When you look back on your life, do you want to be remembered as someone who spent most of their time in life (at least until your early 60s) as an easily-replaceable and forgettable pawn?
You get my points. So how do we fix this downward trend we’re on?
First, stop doing shit we don’t like. A prime example: going to bars every moment of free time in an attempt to forget about our shitty weeks...only to realize we’ve squandered the small amount of free time we actually have...the thought of which alone got us through the week. And that little expendable income we’ve suffered for throughout the week has quickly been squandered on a temporary fix. We all know the girls (sorry, not trying to be a dick, but mostly, it seems to be girls) that go places to take pictures for the sole purpose of posting on Facebook to maintain the facade that they are enjoying themselves. In actuality, these are the same girls that are the biggest buzzkills and bitch about everything while they’re somewhere. This is just one example of people doing things solely because they think that it’s what they should be doing/is expected of them.
One of the things I regret is always trying to be safe and comfortable. Wow, what an atrocious mistake that mindset has been. I know countless people who could do such awesome things, but are wasting time...living a life composed of an unfulfilling and predictable routine because there’s less risk of humiliation that way. So many people waste their lives being underemployed or having a lack of responsibilities for too long, without even attempting any life progress whatsoever. I don't know if it's out of apathy or fear of making a choice that isn’t completely certain. But the truth is that the longer people delay these choices, the more costly the indecision becomes. The longer you wait to act, the more you fall behind.
So stop squandering your time and actually make shit happen.
Accept failure as an exciting part of life rather than something we should avoid. Sadly, this means forgetting about what we've been told our whole lives about failing. We should try to learn shit on our own, take risks, and accept complete and utter fuck-ups. In doing so, we’ll figure out what we actually like and gather meaning from it rather than exist how we’ve been expected to for as far back as we can remember.
So stop wasting time reading this and actually do something you’ve wanted to fucking do. Enjoy writing? Fucking write something. Want to work for a specific company or in a certain industry? Join MeetUp or search people to message on LinkedIn and talk with people that are doing what you want to. Want to learn a skill? Well, there’s a MILLION free resources (and some great paid ones) - check out Page on Noexcuselist , for example.
“The things you own end up owning you.” [Fight Club - I swear, I’m not obsessed with the movie, but some quotes are fantastic] - don’t take a job because it pays well...because no amount of material possessions will even out any other things in your life that you’re not pleased with. You’ll end up complicating your own existence by thinking you need these things in an endless clusterfuck of a cycle. It’s always fun to buy cool shit (I’m so enamored by my iPhone)...but the simpler your existence is, the more liberated you’ll actually feel. You’ll have a brief amount of time to enjoy something you’ve bought...and then it will quickly remind you of the bullshit you had to do that you loathed just to be able to purchase it. And now, you’ve converted it from something you used to gain utility or pleasure from into another artifact to serve as a bitter reminder of realizing everything you originally thought about adulthood was wrong.
I think that our collective goal should be to wake up and be like “Fuck yeah, another day!” instead of “Fuck...yeah...another day.”
And I think the way to get there is to smother yourself in uncertainty and making choices based on what you tell yourself - not what you’re told.
When you find what it is that you’re supposed to do, you’ll probably get good at it, and then, who knows - maybe you’ll get rich from it.
So maybe I’ll fuck up with some of the other things I’m trying to move into/work on independently. But living life wondering “what if” for the next 30-40 years to plan to retire when I may be too old (or six feet under by then, who knows) to enjoy anything...yeah, that’s not an appealing existence.
*And yes, for those wondering, I have money saved up, and will use the hiatus to try/learn new things while networking and searching for other employment/opportunities. Parents aren't paying for anything so don't be an asshole and assume that.
**I gave my two weeks’ notice (you should almost never really straight up quit...unless you want to risk potentially having a scathing reference for any future endeavors, thereby almost nullifying the work you’ve put in).
